---
published: false
title: Malware Analysis - Wannacry
tags:
  - Malware Analysis
---

-----
# Intro
-----

It was the middle of May 2017. I was working night shift in a datacenter on the Windows server team. My desk phone rings and it's a security analyst working for one of the datacenter's tenants, asking us to immediately apply patches to all their servers for the EternalBlue vulnerability because of the WannaCry outbreak. I explain that we already have arrangements in place and that we don't just hurl patches onto servers without vetting them first.

As the night goes on I start keeping tabs on the outbreak, reading news articles, looking at the non-stop flow of new information on social media. In particular, I saw lots of posts on Twitter from malware analysts, with lots of screenshots of debuggers, disassemblers, and other things that at the time, I didn't really recognize. At this point in time I had barely even really started Pentesting With Kali linux and such things were beyond me. But for some reason, on this night in particular, probably due to the sheer size of the outbreak, these Twitter posts piqued my curiosity more than normal. I was astounded by how these people could point out which bits of disassembled code did what. Those posts made me want to learn to reverse engineer malware.

Fast forward about three and a half years and I find myself enrolled in eLearnSecurity's "Malware Analysis Professional" course. I had shown some mild interest in the course a couple of months prior, but what finally pushed me to enroll was a tiny bit of information I learned from someone in the course; one of the labs walks you through analyzing WannaCry.

I took it as a sign, and enrolled.

Many many people have discussed WannaCry's internal workings since the initial outbreak. Blogs, youtube videos, you name it. 

My analysis will not uncover anything new, or reveal hidden secrets. But I enjoyed ripping this apart so much that I feel like I have to share anyway.
